
cost(noun)
  the effort, loss or damage that is involved in order to do or achieve something
    Victory came at a high cost.
    She saved him from the fire at the cost of her own life (= she died).
    They advanced a few hundred metres, but at a heavy cost in life.
    He worked non-stop for three months, at considerable cost to his health.
    the terrible cost of the war in death and suffering

rubbish(noun)
  something that you think is of poor quality
    We had some rubbish teachers at school.
    I thought the play was rubbish!
    Do we have to listen to this rubbish music?
    Why are you eating such rubbish?
    I was told their new album's complete rubbish.
  comments, ideas, etc. that you think are stupid or wrong
    Rubbish! You're not fat.
    What he said was just a load of old rubbish.
    You're talking a load of rubbish.
    Then we were told a lot of rubbish about 'leadership' and 'bonding'.
    It's not rubbish - it's true!

paper(noun)
  an academic article about a particular subject that is written by and for specialists
    The paper looks at the future of primary school education.
    He has published a research paper on the topic.
    He had prepared a briefing paper for the board meeting.
    Some of the materials cited in this paper are no longer available online.
    She has presented papers at international conferences.

entertainment(noun)
  films, music, etc. used to entertain people; an example of this
    Local entertainments are listed in the newspaper.
    the market for home entertainment systems (= video/music equipment)
    There will be live entertainment at the party.
    It was not something you would watch for light entertainment.
    radio, television and other forms of entertainment

prediction(noun)
  a statement that says what you think will happen; the act of making such a statement
    I've learned not to make predictions about the weather.
    Let me get your predictions on the final score.
    It turned out my prediction was right.
    Six hundred workers there lost their jobs today, amid gloomy predictions that there could be worse to come.
    Their prediction of fifty million visitors turned out to be optimistic.

standard(noun)
  a level of quality, especially one that people think is acceptable
    There has been a fall in living standards.
    We need to bring our computer system up to standard.
    The hotel service fell short of the usual standard.
    Their products have never slipped below the high standards of design, style or quality that we have come to expect.
    The work was done to a professional standard.
  a level of quality that is normal or acceptable for a particular person or in a particular situation
    The houses need to be brought up to modern standards.
    You'd better lower your standards if you want to find somewhere cheap to live.
    It wasn't early by her standards.
    One theory says that women are having to prove themselves above normal standards set for men.
    The journey was remarkably quick by any standards.

campus(noun)
  the buildings of a university or college and the land around them
    She lives on campus (= within the main university area).
    university/college campuses
    The number of graduate students living off campus has dropped.
    Students at the main campus have heeded the call to boycott lectures.
    campus life

impression(noun)
  an idea, a feeling or an opinion that you get about somebody/something, or that somebody/something gives you
    Try and smile. You don't want to give people the wrong impression (= that you are not friendly).
    I must correct a false impression that I gave you just now.
    If you want to create the right impression, I suggest you wear a suit.
    He does not want to give a false impression of progress.
    My impression is that there are still a lot of problems.
  the effect that an experience or a person has on somebody/something
    You'll have to play better than that if you really want to make an impression (= to make people admire you).
    My words made no impression on her.
    His trip to India made a strong impression on him.
    The whole business left a lasting impression on Margaret.

report(noun)
  a story or piece of information that may or may not be true
    First reports of the accident are coming in.
    The company made 50 people redundant last month, amid reports it was running out of cash.
    There have been conflicting reports on the number of people killed.
    Police received reports of drug dealing in the area.
    We are hearing reports that she has quit.
  a written statement about a student’s work at school, college, etc.
    to get a good/bad report
    She got a better report card this time.

image(noun)
  a mental picture that you have of what somebody/something is like or looks like
    images of the past
    I like to build up images of the characters and setting before I start to write.
    I had a mental image of what she would look like.
    The history books built up a false image of an unpopular president.
    He started to recall images from his past.

cottage(noun)
  a small house, especially in the country
    They put us up in a guest cottage next to their house.
    They built a small guest cottage on their land.
    We stayed in a cottage on a farm.
    It was her dream to have a little cottage in the country
    James lived in a charming country cottage with roses around the door.

appointment(noun)
  a formal arrangement to meet or visit somebody at a particular time, especially for a reason connected with their work
    She made an appointment for her son to see the doctor.
    I didn't know if I would get an appointment at such short notice.
    Tom has been given an appointment at the local hospital.
    Do you have an appointment?
    He called without an appointment.

respect(noun)
  a strong feeling of approval of somebody/something because of their good qualities or achievements
    I have nothing but respect for the winning team.
    Classical music has lost respect among young people.
    Journalists don't usually get much respect in the movies.
    She had a lot of respect for him as an actor, but didn't like the way he treated other members of the cast.
    I have enormous respect for Pierre. He taught me a lot.
  polite behaviour towards or care for somebody/something that you think is important
    People remove their hats in order to show respect.
    They have a deep respect for the natural world.
    He has no respect for her feelings.
    Work experience gives students a healthy respect for what it takes to earn a living.
    Everyone has a right to be treated with respect.

series(noun)
  several events or things of a similar kind that happen one after the other
    He is in hospital for a whole series of tests.
    You will need to have a series of vaccinations before you visit the area.
    The two sides held a series of meetings in the summer.
    the final book in the series
    She wrote a whole series of novels between 1985 and 2005.

tip(noun)
  a small amount of extra money that you give to somebody, for example somebody who serves you in a restaurant
    He left the waitress a large tip.
    to leave a tip
    Are we supposed to leave a tip?
    Someone put a dollar in the tip jar.
    He gave the waiter a generous tip.

sample(noun)
  a number of people or things taken from a larger group and used in tests to provide information about the group
    The results are based on a sample of 100 people drawn from different areas and social classes.
    The current study has a larger sample size than earlier studies.
    We studied a large population sample.
    The interviews were given to a random sample of students.
    The research was based on samples from 29 populations.

emergency(noun)
  a sudden serious and dangerous event or situation that needs immediate action to deal with it
    He missed the meeting because of a family emergency.
    This door should only be used in an emergency.
    Don't call me unless its a real emergency.
    I need to know what to do in an emergency.
    Would you know what to do in an emergency situation?

heating(noun)
  the process of supplying heat to a room or building; a system used to do this
    The house was very cold because the heating had broken down.
    to put/turn the heating on
    Who turned the heating off?
    They have their heating turned off during the morning.
    Our heating goes off at eleven o'clock and comes on again at seven.

reality(noun)
  the true situation and the problems that actually exist in life, in contrast to how you would like life to be
    I don't think he understands the reality of the situation.
    He needs to accept the reality that his time in this job is over.
    We were faced with the awful reality of having nowhere to live.
    Most people's ideas of the disease do not have much to do with the reality.
    The reality is that there is not enough money to pay for this project.

role(noun)
  the degree to which somebody/something is involved in a situation or an activity and the effect that they have on it
    A cup of tea often serves an important social role.
    They decided to expand the role that new technologies play at the hospital.
    Politicians acknowledge the key roles that young people play in the country.
    We need to better understand the role of cold regions in the global climate system.
    the economic role of small towns

rugby(noun)
  a game played by two teams of 13 or 15 players, using an oval ball which may be kicked or carried. Teams try to put the ball over the other team’s line.
    to play a game of rugby
    Kids from six years old play mini rugby at the club.
    The crowd enjoyed the Fijians' running rugby.
    In rugby circles, there is nothing but criticism for the coverage of sport on terrestrial TV.
    the former rugby international, Serge Blanco

bank(noun)
  the side of a river, canal, etc. and the land near it
    We could see them waving on the opposite bank.
    He jumped in and swam to the opposite bank.
    We strolled along the river bank.
    It's on the north bank of the Thames.
    The river burst its banks after heavy rain.

mood(noun)
  the way you are feeling at a particular time
    The music helped to put them in a more relaxed mood.
    Choose clothes to match your mood.
    I tried to make him laugh, but he was in no mood for jokes.
    Let's not talk about it now. I'm not in the mood.
    I can't keep up with his constantly changing moods.
  the way a group of people feel about something; the atmosphere in a place or among a group of people
    But the mood of the country has changed.
    The right music sets the mood for such a great moment.
    His comments pretty much killed the mood for the rest of the show.
    We need a leader who can gauge the popular mood.
    The movie captures the mood of the interwar years perfectly.

access(noun)
  the opportunity or right to use something or to see somebody/something
    Students have easy access to libraries.
    Many divorced fathers only have access to their children at weekends (= they are allowed by law to see them only at weekends).
    The computer provides access to all the information.
    Students must have access to good resources.
    You need a password to get access to the computer system.
  a way of entering or reaching a place
    I lived deep in the country, without easy access to shops.
    There is easy access by road.
    You may need to gain access to the space under the floor.
    The police gained access through a broken window.
    A judge ruled that the public have right of access to the area.

staff(noun)
  all the workers employed in an organization considered as a group
    She has been on the staff of the hospital for most of her working life.
    The hospital staff cared for me so well.
    We have a weekly staff meeting.
    The company has a staff of fifty.
    I have ten staff working for me.

value(noun)
  how much something is worth in money or other goods for which it can be exchanged
    Don't leave anything of value in the car.
    Paintings to the value of two million euros were stolen last night.
    The land has dropped in value.
    the high value of the dollar
    Jewellery to the value of a million pounds was stolen last night.
  how much something is worth compared with its price
    The hotel gives value for money.
    Larger sizes give the best value for money.
    to be good/great value (= worth the money it costs)
    to be bad/poor value (= not worth the money it costs)
    Though a little more expensive, the larger model gives better value for money.
  the quality of being useful or important
    The story has very little news value.
    Most of his writings are of little real value.
    The real value of the book lies in its wonderful characterization.
    We began to recognize the value of advice from others.
    Many people question the social value of talk shows.

condition(noun)
  an illness or a medical problem that you have for a long time because it is not possible to cure it
    Does your child have any kind of medical condition that we should know about?
    She has a serious health condition.
    All three babies were born with an incurable heart condition.
    He has a rare skin condition.
    He suffers from a serious heart condition.
  the circumstances or situation in which people live, work or do things
    working/living conditions
    to improve conditions for workers
    Conditions are ideal for starting a business.
    an effort to improve working conditions at the plant
    people working under stressful conditions
  the physical situation that affects how something happens
    Studies show that the drug may be harmful under certain conditions.
    The plants grow best in cool, damp conditions.
    Paint shades can vary under different lighting conditions.
    Warm, wet weather can create ideal conditions for plant diseases.
    Animals adapt to changing environmental conditions.
  a rule or decision that you must agree to, sometimes forming part of a contract or an official agreement
    They agreed to lend us the car on condition that (= only if) we returned it before the weekend.
    They would not agree to our conditions.
    I'll agree to the plan on one condition: my name doesn't get mentioned to the press.
    They will give us the money on one condition - that we pay it back within six months.
    They agreed under the condition that the matter be dealt with promptly.

court(noun)
  the place where legal trials take place and where crimes, etc. are judged
    The banks may decide to appeal to a higher court.
    The case took five years to come to court (= to be heard by the court).
    Their neighbours took them to court.
    Her lawyer made a statement outside the court.
    This is the highest court in the country.
  the people in a court, especially those who make the decisions, such as the judge and jury
    Will you please tell the court what happened on that morning?
    Please tell the court what happened.
    We were trying to convince the court that the rules should be changed.
    The company argued there was no case to answer, but the court disagreed.
    The court heard how the mother had beaten the 11-year-old boy.
  a place where games such as tennis and basketball are played
    The players have been on court for an hour.
    The players are good friends off court and train together.
    She is a good player on hard courts.
    Do you prefer playing tennis on grass courts or hard courts?
    He hopes to repeat his success on the grass courts of Wimbledon.

heart(noun)
  a thing that is like a heart in shape, often red and used as a symbol of love; a symbol like a heart used to mean the verb ‘love’
    The words 'I love you' were written inside a big red heart.
    She was drawing hearts on the cover of a loose-leaf binder.
  the place in a person where the feelings and emotions are thought to be, especially those connected with love
    She has a kind heart.
    He set off with a light heart.
    Just follow your heart and you'll be happy.
    Let's sing it one more time from the beginning - and put some heart into it!
    Have you no heart?

dislike(noun)
  a feeling of not liking somebody/something
    My father has a great dislike of long hair on boys.
    Her husband developed a strong dislike for the dog.
    She felt dislike rather than sympathy as he told his story.
    I took an instant dislike to my new colleague.
    He did not try to hide his dislike of his boss.
  a thing that you do not like
    I've told you all my likes and dislikes.

key(noun)
  a thing that makes you able to understand or achieve something
    Language is the key to understanding those around you.
    Persistence is the key if you want to get a job.
    The driver of the car probably holds the key to solving the crime.
    The key to success is preparation.
    The key is, how long can the federal government control the inflation rate?
  any of the buttons that you press to operate a computer, phone or typewriter
    He began tapping on the keys of his laptop.
    Press the return key to enter the information.
    the top row of keys
    F1 is the short-cut key for calling up help.
    You can use the arrow keys on the keyboard instead.
  any of the wooden or metal parts that you press to play a piano and some other musical instruments
    His hands flew over the piano keys.

employment(noun)
  work, especially when it is done to earn money; the state of being employed
    They are finding it more and more difficult to find employment.
    It's getting more and more difficult for young people to find regular employment.
    Your conditions of employment should tell you how many days of sick leave you are entitled to.
    He took up employment with the company in May 2015.
    She lost her employment when the company closed.
  the situation in which people have work
    The government is aiming at full employment.
    Changes in farming methods have badly affected employment in the area.
    The latest employment figures show a fall in the number of people who are out of work.
    The government aims to achieve full employment within three years.
    an area of very low employment

protest(noun)
  the expression of strong dislike of or opposition to something; a statement or an action that shows this
    protests over plans to close the museum
    The building work will go ahead, despite protests from local residents.
    The country has undergone two weeks of protests by workers and students.
    Unions have called for a day of protest on 24 February.
    There had been a number of public protests against the new tax.

smoke(noun)
  an act of smoking a cigarette
    Are you coming outside for a smoke?
    He's in the back garden having a smoke.

whole(noun)
  all that there is of something
    The library takes up the whole of the first floor.
    The project involved the whole of the university.
    The effects will last for the whole of his life.
    Technology permeates the whole of our lives.
    The scheme would cover the whole of the UK.

emotion(noun)
  a strong feeling such as love, fear or anger; the part of a person’s character that consists of feelings
    Emotions are running high (= people are feeling very excited, angry, etc.).
    He felt no emotion as she left.
    The film captures the real emotion of this terrible event.
    Drama can help children to express their emotions.
    The young boy bit his lip to keep his emotions in check.

move(noun)
  a change of place or position
    She felt he was watching her every move.
    He made a move for the door.
    One false move and I'll shoot!
    He performed some energetic dance moves.
    She made no move as the lion sniffed at the tent.
  an act of changing the place where you live or work
    What's the date of your move?
    Her new job is just a sideways move.
    His new job was a lateral move rather than a promotion.
    The move gave her career a boost.
    The move meant lower costs.
  an act of changing the position of a piece in chess or other games that are played on a board
    She learned all the chess moves when she was four.
    The game was over in only six moves.
    It's your move.
    She captured the queen with her bishop on the 32nd move.

worth(noun)
  the financial, practical or moral value of somebody/something
    I only found out its real worth when I tried to buy another one.
    Asking for advice from people affirms their personal worth.
    He has a personal net worth of $10 million.
    A good job interview should help candidates prove their worth.
    The activities help children to develop a sense of their own worth.

stranger(noun)
  a person that you do not know
    There was a complete stranger sitting at my desk.
    We've told our daughter not to speak to strangers.
    His years abroad had made him almost a stranger with his family.
    He was a complete stranger to me.
    Why should a perfect (= complete) stranger ever help me out?
  a person who is in a place that they have not been in before
    Sorry, I don't know where the bank is. I'm a stranger here myself.
    He must have been a stranger to the town.
    She was a stranger to the place.
    You're a stranger here, aren't you?

society(noun)
  a group of people who join together for a particular purpose
    He made few friends and joined few clubs or societies.
    Local law societies were unreceptive to the idea.
    She belongs to the historical society.
    He is a member of numerous professional societies.
    I joined the local Genealogy Society.

request(verb)
  to ask for something or ask somebody to do something in a polite or formal way
    Call us now if you would like to request a song (= ask for it to be played on the radio)
    She requested that no one be told of her decision until the next meeting.
    You are politely requested not to bring food or drink into the library.
    The government has requested information from the companies involved in the scandal.
    'Please come with me,' he requested.

light(verb)
  to give light to something or to a place
    Make sure you always park your car in busy, well lit streets.
    The house was dark except for one lighted window upstairs.
    the lighted windows of the house
    They use lanterns to light the room.
    The room was dark now, lit only by a single candle.

fix(verb)
  to decide on a date, a time, an amount, etc. for something
    Has the date of the next meeting been fixed?
    Their prices are fixed until the end of the year (= will not change before then).
    They fixed the rent at £200 a week.
    Their departure was fixed for 14 August.
    A second trial date was fixed for 7th December.

remind(verb)
  to help somebody remember something, especially something important that they must do
    'Don't forget the camera.' 'Remind me about it nearer the time.'
    'You need to finish that essay.' 'Don't remind me (= I don't want to think about it).'
    I'm sure I don't need to remind you that we have lost our last ten games.
    She looked at her watch to remind him of the time.
    The bathroom mirror constantly reminds me that I am getting old.

correct(verb)
  to mark the mistakes in a piece of work (and sometimes give a mark to the work)
    It's simply not true that teachers no longer correct bad spellings.
    I spent all evening correcting essays.
    When I've corrected your assignments, I want you to write them out again.

dislike(verb)
  to not like somebody/something
    Much as she disliked asking for help, she knew she had to.
    I dislike being away from my family.
    Most people dislike going to the dentist.
    If anyone really dislikes this colour, please tell me.
    He disliked it when she phoned him so late at night.

expect(verb)
  to demand that somebody will do something because it is their duty or responsibility
    I think my parents always expected too much of me.
    No one has a right to expect good results without working hard.
    It is reasonable to expect changes in the way we work.
    It would be unreasonable to expect them to do all that work for free.
    I expect to be paid promptly for the work.

argue(verb)
  to give reasons why you think that something is right/wrong, true/not true, etc., especially to persuade people that you are right
    He was too tired to argue the point (= discuss the matter).
    He argued that they needed more time to finish the project.
    It could be argued that laws are made by and for men.
    In her paper she goes on to argue that scientists do not yet know enough about the nature of the disease.
    The report argues convincingly that economic help should be given to these countries.

fight(verb)
  to have an argument with somebody about something
    I remember lying in bed listening to my parents fighting.
    I'm always fighting with my sister.
    Scholars have long fought over this point.
    It's a trivial matter and not worth fighting about.
  to try hard to stop, deal with or oppose something bad or something that you disagree with
    She spent her life fighting for the poor.
    We will continue to fight for as long as it takes.
    Why did you fight so hard against these changes?
    Workers are fighting the decision to close the factory.
    She'll fight like a tiger to protect her children.
  to try very hard to get something or to achieve something
    Doctors fought for more than six hours to save his life.
    This small company fought its way to global success.
    She fought hard to get this film made.
    They say they are fighting to preserve their way of life.
    We need a good manager who is prepared to fight for a fair share of the funds.

compete(verb)
  to try to be more successful or better than somebody else who is trying to do the same as you
    We have to compete with several larger companies.
    The price must be right in order to compete internationally.
    Colleges will have to compete to attract the best students.
    to compete on quality/cost
    There are too many magazines competing to attract readers.

know(verb)
  to think that somebody/something is a particular type of person or thing or has particular characteristics
    It's known as the most dangerous part of the city.
    She is best known for her work on the human brain.
    He has become widely widely known as an expert in child psychology.
    He is internationally known for his work with vaccines.
    He's known to be an outstanding physicist.
  to give somebody/something a particular name or title
    He has been known by many names in his long life.
    The country was not yet known by the name of England.
    He was known as Bonzo to his friends.
    parts of the body known collectively as the sensory system
    The drug is commonly known as Ecstasy.
  to be able to recognize somebody/something
    I couldn't see who was speaking, but I knew the voice.
    She knows a bargain when she sees one.

follow(verb)
  to go along a road, path, etc.
    Follow this road until you get to the school, then turn left.
  to go in the same direction as something or parallel to something
    The lane follows the edge of a wood for about a mile.

warn(verb)
  to tell somebody about something, especially something dangerous or unpleasant that is likely to happen, so that they can avoid it
    If you're thinking of getting a dog, be warned - they take a lot of time and money.
    She was warned that if she did it again she would lose her job.
    You will get better - but be warned, it may be a long process.
    I tried to warn him, but he wouldn't listen.
    I must warn you that some of these animals are extremely dangerous.
  to strongly advise somebody to do or not to do something in order to avoid danger or punishment
    They were warned not to climb the mountain in such bad weather.
    My mother constantly warned me not to go into teaching.
    We were warned against drinking the local water.
    We were specifically warned against buying the house.
    'I'm warning you!' said James, losing his patience.

mind(verb)
  to be willing to do something
    I don't mind helping if you can't find anyone else.
    They had thought the boys wouldn't mind sharing; as it turned out, they minded bitterly.
  used to tell somebody to be careful about something or warn them about a danger
    You must be home for dinner, mind.
    Mind how you go! (= often used when you say goodbye to somebody)
    Mind your language! (= don't speak in a rude or offensive way)
    Mind your head! (= for example, be careful you don't hit it on a low ceiling)
    Mind (= Don't fall on) that step!

waste(verb)
  to use more of something than is necessary or useful
    Why waste money on clothes you don't need?
    Don't waste your money on a hotel room.
    We got straight down to business without wasting time on small talk.
    Their father hated to waste energy.
    You're wasting your time trying to explain it to him (= because he will not understand).

concentrate(verb)
  to give all your attention to something and not think about anything else
    She tried to concentrate on reading her book but couldn't.
    I tried to work but I found I couldn't concentrate.
    She was sitting at her desk concentrating hard.
    Nothing concentrates the mind better than the knowledge that you could die tomorrow (= it makes you think very clearly).
    We're concentrating even harder on giving quality service this year.

suffer(verb)
  to be badly affected by a disease, pain, sad feelings, a lack of something, etc.
    I hate to see animals suffering.
    I played tennis yesterday and I know I shall suffer for it today.
    I'm sorry that you have to suffer alone like this.
    Increasing numbers of children are suffering from mental health problems.
    This area suffered very badly in the storms.

face(verb)
  to be opposite somebody/something; to have your face or front pointing towards somebody/something or in a particular direction
    The back rooms face north and can be cold.
    Most of the rooms face the sea.
    The flower turns its head to face the sun.
    Babies may prefer to be carried facing outwards.
    She turned and faced him.
  if you face a particular situation, or it faces you, you have to deal with it
    I think they would feel differently if they were parents facing the same situation.
    We are faced with competition from young up-and-coming artists.
    The party will have to change its policies to fit the new problems facing society.
    She's faced with a difficult decision.
    Many believe the country faces a grim future.
  to accept that a difficult situation exists, although you would prefer not to
    We have to face it that things are going to take a lot longer than we planned.
    You need to face the fact that she doesn't love you.
    Face facts - she isn't coming back.
    Let's face it, we're not going to win.
    They refuse to face the fact that this isn't going to work.
  if you can’t face something unpleasant, you feel unable or unwilling to deal with it
    I would go, but I can't face getting up so early.
    I was planning to clean the car, but I can't face it.
    I don't know how I'm going to be able to face telling them.
    She couldn't face her exercise class this morning.
    Some people just can't face parties.

aim(verb)
  to try or plan to achieve something
    We should aim for a bigger share of the market.
    They're aiming at training everybody by the end of the year.
    He has always aimed high (= tried to achieve a lot).
    We aim to be there around six.
    She's aiming at a scholarship this year.

contact(verb)
  to communicate with somebody, for example by phone, letter or email
    He can be contacted by phone on the number given below.
    For further information, contact your local careers office.
    Anyone with tickets will be contacted by phone, letter or email and offered a full refund.
    I've been trying to contact you all day.
    Witnesses to the accident are asked to contact the police.

introduce(verb)
  to mention something for the first time in a piece of writing
    Each new idea should be introduced in a new paragraph.
    Introduce the topic and briefly state your own opinion.
    In Chapter 3 the author introduces the concept of the learner-centred classroom to readers.
  to make somebody learn about something or do something for the first time
    The first lecture introduces students to the main topics of the course.
    He was first introduced to drugs by his elder brother.
    It was she who first introduced the pleasures of sailing to me.
    She has developed her love of archery since being introduced to the sport by a workmate.
  to make something available for use, discussion, etc. for the first time
    The company is introducing a new range of products this year.
    The new law was introduced in 2007.
    We are going to introduce a few changes to the system.
    They recently introduced a yogurt drink into the market.
    The local authority plans to introduce new regulations on parking.
  to be the start of something new
    A slow theme introduces the first movement.
    Bands from London introduced the craze for this kind of music.

touch(verb)
  to move something, especially in such a way that you damage it; to hit or harm somebody
    I told you not to touch my things.
    He said I kicked him, but I never touched him!

vote(verb)
  to show formally by marking a paper, raising your hand, using a voting machine, etc. which person you want to win an election, or which plan or idea you support
    She returned home in order to vote in the elections.
    About 1.8 million people voted in the election.
    Everyone over 18 has the right to vote.
    Her party voted with the government.
    Over 60% of members voted in favour of (= for) the motion.

fold(verb)
  to bend something, especially paper or cloth, so that one part lies on top of another part
    First, fold the paper in half/in two.
    He folded the map up and put it in his pocket.
    I folded up the clothes and put them away.
    Don't fold back pages to mark your place in a book.
    The bird folded its wings.
  to bend something so that it becomes smaller or flatter and can be stored or carried more easily; to bend or be able to bend in this way
    When she heard the news, her legs just folded under her (= she fell).
    The table folds up when not in use.
    The table folds away when not in use.
    The bed can be folded away during the day.
    The central back seat can be folded down to provide a useful tray.

fear(verb)
  to be frightened of somebody/something or frightened of doing something
    People feared to speak because he got so angry.
    They have reason to fear the police.
    She says she doesn't fear dying, but she worries for her children.
    She feared going out at night.
    Everyone feared the coming war.
  to feel that something bad might have happened or might happen in the future
    She has been missing for three days now and police are beginning to fear the worst (= think that she is dead).
    I really feared that this might be the end.
    The company feared losing its tax breaks.
    Women and children are feared to be among the victims.
    He doesn't say anything because he fears upsetting his wife.

play(verb)
  to pretend to be something that you are not
    The children were dressed as soldiers, but they were just playing.
    I decided it was safer to play dead.
    She enjoys playing the wronged wife.
  to have an effect or influence on something
    All countries have a part to play in protecting the environment.
    Zinc may play an important part in the health of the prostate.
    Social media played an important part in the last election.
    Businesses can play their part by contributing some of their profits.
    High environmental temperatures may also play a role.
  to trick somebody for fun
    Children ran around the village playing tricks.
    I played a trick on him just to see his reaction.

relax(verb)
  to become or make somebody become calmer and less worried
    I can't relax until I've spoken to her myself.
    I'll only relax when I know you're safe.
    'You need to try and relax,' Jane said.
    A herbal tea will relax you.
    Julie seems to be relaxing a little now.
  to become or make something become less tight or stiff
    He closed his eyes and forced himself to relax his tensed body.
    Allow your muscles to relax completely.
    His severe expression relaxed into a half-smile.
    He relaxed his grip on her arm.
    The massage relaxed my tense back muscles.

break(verb)
  to cut the surface of the skin and make it bleed
    The dog bit me but didn't break the skin.
  to do something that is against the law; to not keep a promise, etc.
    I've never broken my word; why should I do it now?
    People should not be allowed to break the rules.
    to break a promise
    to break an appointment (= not to come to it)
    He was breaking the speed limit (= travelling faster than the law allows).

knock(verb)
  to hit something hard, often by accident
    Her hand knocked against the glass.
    The stick knocked against the wall.
    She dropped the pile of books when he accidentally knocked her shoulder.
    The door's very low - mind you don't knock your head!
    Be careful you don't knock your head on this low beam.
  to hit something so that it moves or breaks
    They had to knock the door down to get in.
    He had knocked one of the pictures off the wall.
    The boys were knocking (= kicking) a ball around in the back yard.
    He'd knocked over a glass of water.
    Mind you don't knock that glass over.

imagine(verb)
  to think that something is probably true
    I don't imagine he'll get here now, do you?
    You don't seriously imagine I'll agree to that?
    I could almost imagine you were jealous.
    You shouldn't imagine that he's anything but a ruthless man.

afford(verb)
  to have enough money to be able to buy or do something
    He couldn't afford the money to go on the trip.
    Can we afford a new car?
    I would give up work if I could afford it.
    They couldn't afford to buy a house there.
    We can't afford to have children.

frighten(verb)
  to make somebody suddenly feel afraid
    She doesn't frighten easily (= it is not easy to make her afraid).
    Sorry, I didn't mean to frighten you.
    It really frightens me to think how this might have ended.
    Stop it! You're frightening me!
    It frightened him that she could see so easily into his private thoughts.

scan(verb)
  to look quickly but not very carefully at a document, etc.
    She scanned through the newspaper over breakfast.
    I scanned the list quickly for my name.
    I scanned the paper for news.
    He scanned through the web pages.
    You should teach students to scan for essential information.

drop(verb)
  to make something fall deliberately; to let yourself fall
    She lifted the bag then dropped it down again.
    The plane came straight in, dropping down to land in a field.
    He dropped his trousers (= undid them and let them fall).
    You can never be sure whether the planes will be dropping bombs or food parcels.
    He dropped his pants.
  to become or make something weaker, lower or less
    The number of children in the class has dropped from 25 to 18.
    Processing costs dropped 30 per cent.
    The dollar dropped sharply against the euro.
    Shares dropped in price by 14p.
    The price of oil has dropped significantly.

rent(verb)
  to regularly pay money to somebody so that you can use something that they own, such as a house, a room, some land, etc.
    We're looking for a house to rent in the area.
    Are you looking to buy or rent?
    to rent a house/an apartment
    Who do you rent the land from?
    The property is available to rent on a short-term lease.
  to allow somebody to use something that you own such as a house or some land in exchange for regular payments
    He rents rooms in his house to students.
    She agreed to rent the room to me.
    She agreed to rent me the room.
    We rented our house out for a year when we went abroad.
    She bought a three-bedroom flat with the objective of renting two rooms.
  to pay money to somebody so that you can use something for a short period of time
    She rented a car at the airport.
    We rented a car for the week and explored the area.
    You can rent mountain bikes and explore the area.
    They rented a meeting room in a downtown hotel.

mark(verb)
  to give marks to students’ work
    I hate marking exam papers.
    I spend at least six hours a week marking.
    If you don't hand your homework in on time, I won't mark it.

advise(verb)
  to tell somebody what you think they should do in a particular situation
    Police are advising people to stay at home.
    They advise that a passport be carried with you at all times.
    They advise that a passport should be carried with you at all times.
    I would advise buying your tickets well in advance if you want to travel in August.
    Her mother was away and couldn't advise her.
  to give somebody help and information on a subject that you know a lot about
    The nurse will advise about getting out of bed, bathing, and diet.
    Your lawyer can advise you whether to take any action.
    We can advise parents about education.
    We employ an expert to advise on new technology.
    We will be happy to advise on any financial matters.

hide(verb)
  to keep something secret, especially your feelings
    feelings that she had kept completely hidden all these years
    They didn't try to hide the fact that the film was a remake.
    I have never tried to hide the truth about my past.
    I could not hide my joy at seeing him again.
    The government tried to hide the evidence from the public.

slice(verb)
  to cut something into slices
    Add 6 hot dogs sliced into pieces.
    to slice (up) onions
    Add a few very thinly sliced red onions.
    sliced bread
    Thickly slice the potatoes.

wonder(verb)
  to think about something and try to decide what is true, what will happen, what you should do, etc.
    By the end you are left wondering what on earth the film is trying to say.
    We'd wondered about you as a possible team member.
    Have you ever wondered what your cat really thinks of you?
    I wonder why he left his job.
    We were wondering about next April for the wedding.
  used as a polite way of asking a question or asking somebody to do something
    I was wondering whether you would like to come to a party.
    I wonder if you can help me.

take(verb)
  to make somebody/something go from one level, situation, etc. to another
    He believes he has the skills to take the club forward.
    We'll take the matter forward at our next meeting (= discuss it further).
    I would like to take my argument a stage further.
    Her energy and talent took her to the top of her profession.
    The new loan takes the total debt to $100 000.
  to get something from a particular source
    The machine takes its name from its inventor.
    Part of her article is taken straight (= copied) out of my book.
    The scientists are taking water samples from the river.
  to use a particular course of action in order to deal with or achieve something
    We need to take a different approach to the problem.
    The government is taking action to combat drug abuse.
  used with nouns to say that somebody is doing something, performing an action, etc.
    to take a break
    to take a look
    We will take a decision on the matter next week.
    She's taken a nasty fall and has her leg in plaster.
    to take a deep breath
  to test or measure something
    I need to have my blood pressure taken.
    to take somebody's temperature
  to capture a place or person; to get control of something
    The state has taken control of the company.
    The rebels succeeded in taking the town.
    The militants took the city from government forces.
    The bank robbers took several employees hostage.
    The rebels took him prisoner.
  to choose, buy or rent something
    I'll take the grey jacket.
    We took a room at the hotel for two nights.

keep(verb)
  to know something and not tell it to anyone
    She kept her past secret from us all.
    Can you keep a secret?
  to do what you have promised to do; to go where you have agreed to go
    She kept her promise to visit them.
    He failed to keep his appointment at the clinic.
    Mary kept her word and Henry was never informed.
  to write down something as a record
    Keep a note of where each item can be found.
    She kept a diary for over twenty years.
    Separate accounts must be kept for each different business activity.
    We keep a record of all complaints that we receive.
    I kept a weekly account of my workload and activities.

decorate(verb)
  to make something look more attractive by putting things on it
    The cake was decorated to look like a car.
    They decorated the room with flowers and balloons.
    The family gets together on Christmas Eve to decorate the tree.
  to put paint, wallpaper, etc. on the walls and ceilings of a room or house
    We need to decorate the sitting room.
    The sitting room needs decorating.
    The room is decorated in pale blues and greens.
    The dining room is decorated in a modern style.
    I hate decorating.

participate(verb)
  to take part in or become involved in an activity
    She was asked to play at the festival, but refused to participate.
    to participate in a study/programme
    to participate in an activity/event
    He participates well in classroom activities.
    He was trying to get the audience to participate.

program(verb)
  to give a computer, etc. a set of instructions to make it perform a particular task
    In this class, students will learn how to program.
    He taught himself to program a computer.
    We can program a robot to walk around the room.

result(verb)
  to make something happen
    This is a situation which usually results in one of the kids crying.
    He laughed all the way through the performance, which resulted in him getting the sack.
    Reviews of the policy have not resulted in any changes.
    The murder resulted in a number of steps being taken to increase security.
    This move will inevitably result in the loss of a lot of jobs.

pass(verb)
  to test somebody and decide that they are good enough, according to an agreed standard
    The examiners passed all the candidates.
  to move past or to the other side of somebody/something
    You'll pass a bank on the way to the train station.
    On my way to the cinema, I passed a flower shop.
    Will you be passing a post box on your way home?
    We passed several people going up the mountain as we were coming down.
    I heard someone passing my bedroom door.
  to go or move in the direction mentioned
    The procession passed slowly along the street.
    A plane passed low overhead.
    The air cools as it passes along the pipe.
    We passed through a security checkpoint.
  to give something to somebody by putting it into their hands or in a place where they can easily reach it
    Could you pass the potatoes up to this end of the table, please?
    He passed a note to his friend.
    Pass the salt, please.
    Pass me the salt.
    Pass my coat, would you?
  to kick, hit or throw the ball to a player of your own side
    They should pass more.
    In basketball, the rule is that the player can't move without passing the ball (or dribbling, which is like passing to himself).
    The team caught and passed very well.
    We watched them skillfully pass, run and shoot.
    He passed the ball to Sterling.
  when time passes, it goes by
    The years passed, and many people forgot what had happened that day.
    Six months passed and we still had no news of them.
    I love her more with each passing year.
    Almost fifty years have passed since that day.
    With every passing minute she became more convinced something had happened to them.
  to spend time, especially when you are bored or waiting for something
    She went for a walk to pass the time until dinner.
    We sang songs to pass the time.
    How do you pass the long winter nights?
    It's not a very exciting game, but it passes the time.
    We passed an uneasy few days waiting for the results.
  to come to an end; to be over
    I wanted to ask a question, but the moment passed.
    The film gives a wonderful insight into a way of life that has now passed.
    They waited for the storm to pass.
    This is a record of an era long since passed (= that ended a long time ago).
    I felt a little dizzy at first, but that quickly passed.

perform(verb)
  to do something, such as a piece of work, task or duty
    All subjects performed the experiment twice.
    A computer can perform many tasks at once.
    She performs an important role in our organization.
    This operation has never been performed in this country.
    The prince is no longer able to perform his duties.
  to work or function well or badly
    England's players perform better for their clubs than for their country.
    She performed less well in the second test.
    The company has been performing strongly over the past year.
    The company has been performing poorly over the past year.
    students who are expected to perform well

enter(verb)
  to put your name on the list for an exam, a race, a competition, etc.; to do this for somebody
    How many students have been entered for the exam?
    We're having a class quiz and all the children have entered.
    I wrote a novel for my son and entered it for a competition.
    Over a thousand children entered the competition.
    Her mum entered her in the baby contest.
  to begin or become involved in an activity, a situation, etc.
    Several new firms have now entered the market.
    The programme is now entering the final stage.
    We knew we were entering new territory.
    She graduated in 2017 with plans to enter the financial world.
    The investigation has entered a new phase.
  to become a member of an institution; to start working in an organization or a profession
    She entered college in 2006.
    He did not wish to enter the Church like his brothers.
    I entered politics late in life.
    to enter the Church (= become a priest)
    to enter Parliament (= become an MP)

present(adjective)
  being in a particular place
    There were 200 people present at the meeting.
    Most fathers wish to be present at the birth of their child.
    The mistake was obvious to all those present.
    I wasn't present when the doctor examined him.
    Simply to be physically present was all that was required.

professional(adjective)
  connected with a job that needs special training or skill, especially one that needs a high level of education
    He may need professional help.
    companies that offer professional services
    professional qualifications/skills
    professional standards/practice
    If it's a legal matter, you need to seek professional advice.
  having a job which needs special training and a high level of education
    Most of the people on the course were professional women.
  showing that somebody is well trained and has a lot of skill
    Their designs look very professional.
    He dealt with the problem in a highly professional way.
    People trust websites that look professional.
    The consultant was very friendly but professional in his approach.
    He is always very professional in his approach.

extreme(adjective)
  not ordinary or usual; serious or severe
    Don't go doing anything extreme like leaving the country.
    It was the most extreme example of cruelty to animals I had ever seen.
    extreme weather conditions
    Children will be removed from their parents only in extreme circumstances.
    extreme weather events such as floods and heatwaves

various(adjective)
  several different
    She took the job for various reasons.
    Various groups use the centre.
    Members of the various political parties were calling for something to be done.
    We talked about jobs, family, football and various other things.
    There are various ways of doing this.

close(adjective)
  knowing somebody very well and liking them very much
    He was quite close to his older brother.
    She is very close to her father.
    She and her father are very close.
    We're a very close family.
    Jo is a very close friend.
  near in family relationship
    close relatives, such as your mother and father, and brothers and sisters
    The groom and his close family took their places.
  very involved in the work or activities of somebody else, usually seeing and talking to them regularly
    We are in close touch with the police.
    She has kept in close contact with the victims' families.
    The college has close links with many other institutions.
    Their survival depends on close cooperation.
    We work in close association with the ministry.

common(adjective)
  shared by or belonging to two or more people or by the people in a group
    We are working together for a common purpose.
    This decision was taken for the common good (= the advantage of everyone).
    They share a common interest in photography.
    common ownership of the land
    This attitude is common to most young men in the armed services.
  ordinary; not unusual or special
    Shakespeare's work was popular among the common people in his day.
    In most people's eyes she was nothing more than a common criminal.
    Oats were the staple food of the common people.
    You would think he would have the common courtesy to apologize (= this would be the polite behaviour that people would expect).
    It's only common decency to let her know what's happening (= people would expect it).

rich(adjective)
  people who have a lot of money or property
    It's a favourite resort for the rich and famous.
  containing or providing a large supply of something
    Ours is a world rich with possibilities.
    The country is rich in natural resources.
    The area is rich in wildlife.
    His novels are a rich source of material for the movie industry.
    Oranges are rich in vitamin C.

unfair(adjective)
  not right or fair according to a set of rules or principles; not treating people equally
    She thought it most unfair that girls were not allowed to take part.
    I was working really long hours, which was unfair on my wife and my kids.
    It would be unfair not to let you have a choice.
    We hope the authorities will move to end such unfair practices.
    They had been given an unfair advantage.

essential(adjective)
  completely necessary; extremely important in a particular situation or for a particular activity
    It is becoming almost essential for students to have a second language.
    The museum is closed while essential repairs are being carried out.
    the skills essential for success
    He believed that some form of religion was essential to human life.
    It is essential to keep the two groups separate.

far(adjective)
  at a greater distance away from you
    at the far end of the room
    I saw her on the far side of the road.
    The sun slid behind the purple mountains in the far distance.
    They made for an empty table in the far corner.
    His shot was just inches wide of the far post (= of the goal).
  at the furthest point in a particular direction
    Who is that on the far left of the photograph?
    the far north of Scotland
    She is on the far right of the party (= holds extreme right-wing political views).

wild(adjective)
  having no discipline or control
    He had a wild look in his eyes.
    Her hair was rather wild.
    The band has a reputation for wild behaviour.
    The boy is wild and completely out of control.
    There is a wild side to him.
  full of very strong feeling
    It makes me wild (= very angry) to see such waste.
    When the band appeared, the crowd went wild.
    The crowd went wild.
    Everything about her drove him wild (= made him like her very much).
    It's the story of a wild and romantic love affair.

confused(adjective)
  unable to think clearly or to understand what is happening or what somebody is saying
    I'm getting really confused now. What has that got to do with it?
    The policemen looked a little confused at her question.
    I'm confused - say all that again.
    He was beginning to get rather confused.
    People are confused about all the different labels on food these days.

near(adjective)
  a short time away in the future
    The exams are drawing near.
    Working memory refers to the brain's ability to remember things in the short or near term.
    The conflict is unlikely to be resolved in the near future (= very soon).
  coming next after somebody/something
    She has a 12-point lead over her nearest rival.
  similar; most similar
    He was the nearest thing to (= the person most like) a father she had ever had.

strange(adjective)
  not familiar because you have not been there before or met the person before
    At first the place was strange to me.
    She woke up in a strange bed in a strange room.
    Never accept lifts from strange men.
    I am still a stranger in a strange land.

serious(adjective)
  needing to be thought about carefully; not only for pleasure
    This book is the first serious study of the subject.
    The speech was interesting, if a little serious for such a young audience.
    serious drama/fiction
    Why do you waste your time reading that? It's hardly a serious newspaper, is it?
    an appreciation of serious music
  that must be treated as important
    Please give it some serious thought before you make a decision.
    We need to get down to the serious business of working out costs.
    The subject has received little serious attention.
    The team is a serious contender for the title this year.
    It's time to give serious consideration to this matter.

total(adjective)
  being the amount or number after everyone or everything is counted or added together
    Try to cut down on the total amount of fat that you eat.
    This brought the total number of accidents so far this year to 113.
    Their total cost was $18 000.
    The club has a total membership of 300.
    The total student population at Cambridge University is around 13,000 students.
  used when you are emphasizing something, to mean ‘to the greatest degree possible’
    I can't believe you would tell a total stranger about it!
    The evening was a total disaster.
    The game ended in a total rout.
    Six years of total war had left no citizen untouched.
    They lived with an almost total lack of information about what was happening.

available(adjective)
  free to see or talk to people
    She is in a meeting at present, but I will let you know as soon as she becomes available.
    They'll be available to help every day next week.
    The director was not available for comment.
    Will she be available this afternoon?

live(adjective)
  living; not dead
    live animals
    I need to talk to a live person (= not a recording or computer).
    We saw a real live rattlesnake!
    the number of live births (= babies born alive)
  sent out while the event is actually happening, not recorded first and broadcast later
    on live television/TV
    Is the show live or recorded?
    You're looking at live pictures from a Las Vegas courtroom.
    live coverage of the World Cup
  given or made when people are watching, not recorded
    The club has live music most nights.
    They're still one of the best live bands (= best at performing) around.
    It was the first interview I'd done in front of a live audience (= with people watching).
    the magic of a live performance
  made at a live performance, not in a recording studio
    the band's new live album

unpleasant(adjective)
  not pleasant or comfortable
    It can be unpleasant to sit next to a group of people arguing.
    His clothes smelled most unpleasant.
    The minerals in the water made it unpleasant to drink.
    It must have been unpleasant for her neighbours to be exposed to the constant loud music.
    tests which are unpleasant for patients
  not kind, friendly or polite
    Things started to get unpleasant when the police were called.
    You don't have to be so unpleasant about it. I said I was sorry.
    She said some very unpleasant things about you.
    There was an unpleasant atmosphere in the room.
    He was very unpleasant to me.

aware(adjective)
  knowing or realizing something
    I don't think people are really aware of just how much it costs.
    They suddenly became aware of people looking at them.
    As you're aware, this is not a new problem.
    We need to make people aware of the effects of their lifestyle on the environment.
    She was suddenly aware that she was being watched.

suitable(adjective)
  right or appropriate for a particular purpose or occasion
    I don't have anything suitable to wear for the party.
    Would now be a suitable moment to discuss my report?
    This programme is not suitable for children.
    I don't think he's a suitable partner for her.
    The walk is suitable for all the family.

relaxing(adjective)
  helping you to rest and become less anxious
    I find swimming very relaxing.

married(adjective)
  connected with marriage
    Are you enjoying married life?
    Her married name (= the family name of her husband) is Jones.
    The poem is a celebration of married love.
    The officer was stationed at Netley, where he and his wife lived in married quarters (= accommodation).

square(adjective)
  used after a number to give a measurement of area
  used after a unit of measurement to say that something measures the same amount on each of four sides

little(adjective)
  used after an adjective to show approval, sympathy or dislike, especially in a patronizing way (= one that suggests that you think you are better than somebody)
    She's a good little worker.
    The poor little thing! It's lost its mother.
    He would become quite the little gentleman.
    What a nasty little man!
  not important; not serious
    Sometimes it's the little things that count.
    You soon get used to the little difficulties.
    I can't remember every little detail.
    All those problems because of one little mistake!
    The system has some odd little quirks.

fine(adjective)
  bright and not raining
    That summer saw weeks of fine dry weather.
    It was a fine sunny morning.
    The next morning turned out fine again.
    Let's hope it stays fine for the wedding this afternoon.
    I hope it stays fine for the picnic.
  pleasant to look at
    The boy looks mighty fine in a uniform.

sure(adjective)
  certain that you will receive something or that something will happen
    You're always sure of a warm welcome there.
    We could not be sure of financial support.
    England must win this game to be sure of qualifying for the World Cup.
  certain to do something or to happen
    The exhibition is sure to be popular.
    She's sure to be picked for the team.
    It's sure to rain.
    You're sure to get lost if you don't keep to the path.

embarrassed(adjective)
  shy, uncomfortable or ashamed, especially in a social situation
    He felt embarrassed at being the centre of attention.
    Sometimes I get a bit embarrassed when I have to explain to people.
    I've never felt so embarrassed in my life!
    I was embarrassed about talking to my parents about it.
    Some women are too embarrassed to consult their doctor about the problem.

fair(adjective)
  pale in colour
    She has long fair hair.
    Kate had dark hair and fair skin.
    All her children are fair (= they all have fair hair).

free(adjective)
  not under the control or in the power of somebody else; able to do what you want
    Students have a free choice of modules in their final year.
    'Can I sit here?' 'Please, feel free (= of course you can).'
    Feel free to email me if you have any questions.
    You are free to come and go as you please.
    Children should be free to choose their own friends.
  not limited or controlled by anyone else
    In a free country you should be able to go wherever you want.
    the free movement of goods and capital
    the free flow of ideas through society
    He tried to create an open and free atmosphere in the school.
    A true democracy needs free speech and a free press.
  not a prisoner or slave
    He walked out of jail a free man.
    We are a free people and we will not be enslaved.
    He had an alibi, so police had no choice but to let him walk free.
    In ancient Rome it was possible for a slave to become a free man.
    He promised that some day the slaves would go free.
  not tied up or in a cage
    She opened the cage and let the bird fly free.
    The chickens are free to range across a wide area.
    He subdues one of the wild horses and then allows it to go free.
    The researchers set the birds free.
    animals roaming free across the plains

independent(adjective)
  confident and free to do things without needing help from other people
    Going away to college has made me much more independent.
    Students should aim to become more independent of their teachers.
    She's a very independent-minded young woman.
    Many disabled people are fiercely independent.
  having or earning enough money so that you do not have to rely on somebody else for help
    It was important to me to be financially independent of my parents.

public(adjective)
  connected with the government and the services it provides
    He spent much of his career in public office (= working in the government).
    Schools are worried about public spending cuts.
    the public purse (= the money that the government can spend)
    The rail industry is no longer in public ownership (= controlled by the government).
  known to people in general
    She entered public life (= started a job in which she became known to the public) at the age of 25.
    This latest scandal will not have done their public image (= the opinion that people have of them) any good.
    Details of the government report have not yet been made public.
  open to people in general; intended to be seen or heard by people in general
    A public meeting to discuss the issue will be held tomorrow night.
    The painting will be put on public display next week.
    This may be the band's last public appearance together.
    The reception and other public areas have been refurbished.
    The company was forced to issue a public apology.
  where there are a lot of people who can see and hear you
    Let's go somewhere a little less public.

shiny(adjective)
  smooth and bright; reflecting the light
    A shiny red car was parked in the drive.
    shiny black hair
    His face was red and shiny.
    He looked very smart in his grey suit and shiny black shoes.
    The tabletop is smooth and shiny.

convenient(adjective)
  useful, easy or quick to do; not causing problems
    A bicycle is often more convenient than a car in towns.
    You'll find these meals quick and convenient to prepare.
    Wait for a convenient moment to talk to her.
    Flying is the most convenient way to travel in such a large country as China.
    When would be convenient for a visit?
  near to a particular place; easy to get to
    The house is very convenient for several schools.
    The house is quite convenient for the shops.
    The office is just five minutes from the station, so it's very convenient.
    The hotel is convenient to downtown.

proud(adjective)
  feeling pleased and satisfied about something that you own or have done, or are connected with
    I feel very proud to be a part of the team.
    the proud owner of a new car
    The girls have made me extremely proud.
    Barry was proud of the fact that he had never missed a day's work in his life.
    proud parents

living(adjective)
  alive now
    The elephant is the biggest living land animal.
    the finest living pianist
    all living things
    living organisms

honest(adjective)
  always telling the truth, and never stealing or cheating
    an honest man/woman
    They were honest, hard-working people, trying to farm on their own two feet.
  not hiding the truth about something
    To be quite honest with you, I don't think he's the right person for the job.
    Try to be honest about how you feel.
    Try to give an honest answer.
    He gave an honest answer to a difficult question.
    We need to have more open and honest discussions about mental health.

especially(adverb)
  very much; to a particular degree
    I wasn't feeling especially happy that day.
    especially useful/interesting
    Children are expected to obey their parents at all times.This is especially true of girls.
    'Do you like his novels?' 'Not especially.'
    A plentiful supply of water is especially important in summer.

simply(adverb)
  used to emphasize how easy or basic something is
    You can enjoy all the water sports, or simply lie on the beach.
    She says that the company was simply trying to protect its business.
    Most internet users simply want information.
    We are simply saying research is good.
    To order, simply click here.
  in a way that is easy to understand
    It is in many ways a simple story, simply told.
    Simply put, electronic music is anything made using technology.
    The book explains grammar simply and clearly.
    Anyway, to put it simply, we still owe them £2 000.
    Put simply, cells contain an inbuilt mechanism which determines their lifespan.
  in a way that is natural and plain
    They live simply (= they do not spend much money).
    The rooms are simply furnished.

particularly(adverb)
  especially; more than usual or more than others
    Please let us know if there are any areas you find particularly interesting.
    I enjoyed the play, particularly the second half.
    I particularly like the colour of the walls.
    Traffic is bad, particularly in the city centre.
    'Did you enjoy it?' 'No, not particularly (= not very much).'

regularly(adverb)
  at regular intervals or times
    We meet regularly to discuss the progress of the project.
    The water in the fish tank should be changed regularly.
    the introduction of direct, regularly scheduled flights to Beijing
  often
    He regularly got up at four in the morning.
    She regularly wins prizes for her designs.
    He admitted that he regularly used drugs.
    As Home Secretary he had regularly visited Belfast.
    The couple regularly attended Mass.

high(adverb)
  to or at an important position
    She never rose very high in the company.
    She's aiming high (= hoping to be very successful) in her exams.

this(adverb)
  to this degree; so
    I didn't think we would get this far.
    I honestly can't remember when I last enjoyed a film this much.
    They never expected to be quite this successful.
    It's about this high (= as high as I am showing you with my hands).

well(adverb)
  to a great extent or degree
    She knew my family very well.
    The party was planned well in advance.
    He liked her well enough (= to a reasonable degree) but he wasn't going to make a close friend of her.
    I was well annoyed, I can tell you.
    He was driving at well over the speed limit.

ever(adverb)
  used for emphasis when you are comparing things
    It was raining harder than ever.
    It's the worst film I've ever seen.
    Consumers today have more choices than ever before.
    It's my best ever score.

totally(adverb)
  completely
    They come from totally different cultures.
    I totally agree with you.
    This will be a totally new experience for me.
    I admit that I was totally wrong.
    It's important to focus totally on what you're doing.

generally(adverb)
  by or to most people
    The plan was generally welcomed.
    The new drug will be generally available from January.
    It was not until 1908 that Freud's importance began to be generally recognized.
    The initiative was generally considered a success.
    He is generally regarded as the most important American painter of his generation.
  in most cases
    Repairs are occasionally needed but generally the machine is quite reliable.
    The male is generally larger with a shorter beak.
    These systems generally use solar power.
    Payments are generally made on an annual basis.
    The symptoms of jet lag are generally worse after eastward flights.
  without discussing the details of something
    Let's talk just about investment generally.

indoors(adverb)
  inside or into a building
    I prefer to stay indoors in this really hot weather.
    I was indoors watching TV when I heard shouting in the street.
    Let's go indoors.
    She added that in Hong Kong most cats were kept indoors.
    Many herbs can be grown indoors.

twice(adverb)
  double in quantity, rate, etc.
    Cats sleep twice as much as people.
    At 56 he's twice her age.
    an area twice the size of Wales
    Charges have risen at twice the rate of inflation.

forward(adverb)
  towards the future; ahead in time
    The next scene takes the story forwards five years.
    The series moves back and forward through time.
    Looking forward, we hope to expand our operations in several of our overseas branches.
    from this day forward.
